computer hello welcome to another
package managers weekly sync I am taking
brain I am your host for the game of
what we did last week what we're doing
in this week and what we're blocked by
can I get a volunteer for a mate and
okcupid's thanks Jamie - cool so you go
around the room and do the updates so
I'll go first
so last week there are a whole bunch of
outstanding comments on the mkfs blog
post that's been brewing for a while so
I went through and address all of them
iCarly
tried to play with NPM on ipfs and found
you had some problems with it
reliability wise I think he came across
an issue that I found while I was on
holiday
which I've now fixed which is about how
how we construct camp shots and how they
the structures and changes over time as
you edit them so an issue and I fixed it
and one side summers I'm going to
redeploy everything and hopefully you
actually should stop some of the
weirdness I was doing a bunch of
interviews this week and that's it so
next week I am going to pick up my Dodge
pickup my car stuff which is basically
implementing the taiga API based ipfs
but not strictly package managers
ability that's gonna be me does anyone
have any questions
great thank you
hello um so I've had a fun week I have
oh I might as well just go down the list
I put in the coop
so I did a bit of a follow up to the
list of categories by implementation
that I posted last week with some kind
of grouping of ways that ipfs can like
put out some kind of implementation to
match with each kind of categorization
or potentially multiple different kinds
of implementation depending on how
involved or how much we can get other
people on board with which should kind
of lead onto like well are any of these
things even possible or like do we have
ways for each for any particular package
method to be able to do some of those
things I also posted an issue just
starting the conversation about
publicizing the package managers working
group and making the either the repo or
starting a fresh repo open source so
that we can kind of have a bit of a
spotlight for package maintainer x' to
come and like give feedback and learn
things and contribute directly rather
than having to kind of have this like
public conversations and private
conversations because everything that
we're doing at the moment I think is
it's fine to be public as I wrote up
kind of a absolute laundry list of every
possible problem I could think of that
uses package publishers and package
manager maintainer x' might have with
package managers I'm sure there's things
that are missing in it but I thought was
a good way to to kind of look at the
problem from the opposite direction so
rather than going like oh well what can
we
what's good about ipfs that we can bring
to package management is to go what
problems does package management have
and what's the overlap of ipfs features
and/or benefits that can apply i and
then there's a whole host of
prioritization that can be done to kind
of go like this things here that really
help and there is this things here that
are low-hanging fruit that can be in
easily and there are things here that
ipfs can have no impact on or can just
have impacted by by essentially kind of
kick-starting conversations that then
can lead on to other things and then i
actually did some sis ad many kind of
stuff which is quite outside of my area
of expertise but it went fairly well I
attempted to set up a mirror of the
latest a bun to apt repository so at one
point two terabytes of data I've got a
machine in Paris that is currently are
syncing things on a regular basis it
took 12 hours to add one point two
terabytes to ipfs offline using all of
the different tricks I found on
different issues and things and I
basically wrote up almost like a live
blog on the issue with a number of
outputs of different terminal kind of
stats for the machine it didn't look
like it was doing like a huge amount of
stuff like it certainly wasn't pegged on
CPU or memory or disk so there's some
interesting data there to be kind of
plugged into but it's all using like
public mirrors so other people will be
able to run those things as well it's
not like I've done something fantastical
it's it's should be quite a reputable
experiment but there's definite problems
that are currently blocking for at least
setting up a Debian Ubuntu mirror when
it comes to rethinking and adding and
changing after the initial sync and the
fact it takes like five hours plus means
that yeah if you're going to be syncing
a repository every six hours you're kind
of running a little bit closed and you
don't want to be over if the machine's a
bit slow to be caught up like doing an
ad whilst another arcing kicks off
because you'll end up in a situation of
kind of like two different updates at
the same time which might involve
building something cleverer to kind of
schedule those things but probably it
needs to be faster and then I thought I
do I also tried out the Badger file
store that someone suggested that ended
up taking 18 hours rather than 12 hours
which was really surprising but on the
resync it did have the same error but it
it did everything that didn't error went
through in less time so that was an
interesting kind of aside and then I did
the same thing for a much smaller
repository because like okay well is
this this is a problem with gigantic
ones I picked the closures repository
which is the maven repository they have
it rsync which is convenient for a copy
in those things down comes to about 60
gigs but has many many more files in it
I think it's like 1.6 million files or
something much smaller files but just
lots more of them that took 18 hours as
well so that's something like 20 times
slower for the like I assumed the if it
based just on size the closure
repository is 20 times smaller than the
apt one it maybe would take 20 times
less but it did not same amount of time
but the redo so we are synced in five
hundred new files that took eight
minutes the third time around that I ran
it is 25 minutes for it and then like it
continues yet faster on doing this the
kind of small gradual updates so that
was encouraging the closure community
doesn't have any kind of ipfs plugin for
their package matter yet but you could
use the Gateway as a proxy to that
pretend actually I mean you lose all of
the benefits of doing it but it was more
an experiment of trying to run these
file categorize a load pair
I file kind of and what proms are there
blocking people from using it my
internet may be a bit rubbish and I also
had a call last night with Todd gambling
of the SPAC panic package manager who
works at Lawrence Livermore Lab in the
supercomputer department so massive
massive computers and was he was quite
interested in seeing how they can add
ipfs in SPAC is actually designed based
off homebrew so it actually looks a lot
like homebrew so the experiment that I
did a couple weeks ago maybe to add ipfs
spot homebrew could be easily replicated
with back it's written in Python rather
than Ruby but it's it has different
transport supports already so it's it's
very similar and the thing that I found
that was the first call I've had with a
package manager maintainer I had to
spend a lot of time getting him up to
speed on the basics of ipfs and so that
feels like I need to put together a
primer or some kind of specific
documentation around like here are the
parts of the ipfs that are relevant to
you as a package manager maintainer
before we talk so that you can kind of
get people up to speed and then talk
about the stuff that's specific to them
rather than just let me try and explain
ipfs when I don't necessarily have the
best working knowledge of that
think the only other thing then I'm
putting together a little presentation
there's a link in in the clip pad for an
update for the project working group of
some of the stuff that I've been up to
over the past few weeks so I think
that's about it does anybody have any
questions for Andrew hands everywhere I
just wondered if you had shared that
information with anyone on the go ipfs
team just your specific experiences of
loading an app repository no not yet it
I there's a couple of people that got um
CC doing that on that thread and had
commented and given some tips and I've
been kind of retrying with different
options but there's definitely like more
there I just not fully aware of what's a
bug and what's like expected behavior at
this point Jim so I was thinking we just
totally take that test kit use it use it
as a test case and throw it in there and
you know it's a big you know can we
break it for the test case but I'd be
perfect for getting some profiling data
yeah I'd really like to just skip that
whole thing up as well is so that other
people could easily spin up a mirror for
their Anna bunty repository and have
more and more people then and start to
actually be able to like do a full
mirror along with the people that can
just then pull
you
you know with their like quick update
Angie he froze therefore for the last
like 30 seconds also he could you repeat
the answer I'm not sure if anything I
said was useful it was mostly waffling
then performance of course that I
understood cranking out as well and I
think they're very interesting but to
get to the point it's extremely
actionable stuff for the go team will be
deterred on some more like profiling
flags a little bit actually like here
are the functions that have been taking
a lot of time it has been really
interesting to know though that we are I
don't think we're saturating the machine
that I'm just testing on like at all not
even close so that's very interesting
yeah that was a pretty cheap machine as
well that was the the cheapest one I
could get that was fairly mid to me with
enough disk space to fit a whole mirror
plus I wasn't sure how big the ipfs
directory was gonna end up as actually
it was quite small I think it was just 2
point 4 gigabytes so it wasn't like I
had to duplicate everything which is the
problem that one of the original a bunch
of community people had last year was
like oh I need double or triple the disk
space to be able to do this but some of
the changes in since that has happened
has made it so that the disk space isn't
a problem but the time it takes to run
is still the critical thing there i can
also like that server is not doing
anything I can give anyone else access
to it if they would like to have a play
around or I can just like the issue has
all the scripts to be able to run it
yourself on any machine without any
particular setups but it's the kind of
like digitalocean
style spin up a droplet and try and run
a mirror rather than try and do custom
hardware or raid configurations and see
like
if you can make the machine fit to ipfs
we should definitely be going the other
way
Hayden did you have a question
you're meted sister
I was reading through the notes you took
on the meeting with the spot guys and I
felt like there's a reference there to
AFS what was it about AFS they found
interesting because one of the things
that AFS does differently is the the
user experience of it is like there's a
shared name global namespace for
everyone so most places have stayed away
from but the reason that came up was
because of some of the sensitive bits of
software that they deal with
they can't just give everyone access to
the whole file system of everything on a
supercomputer because it might be it
might have copies of private government
code that will be running so they wanted
to be able to set the permissions on the
particular files as well which came from
us talking a little bit about how Unix
FS doesn't keep the the current
permissions when you write it to ipfs in
the standard like in the current version
and there was a lot of kind of me going
like I'm not really sure let me go
like note some things down and then
asked him ipfs people like I could talk
about the packaged mode of stuff and I
am a bit lost with a lot of the actual
kind of once you get into the details of
ipfs so this is mostly a request for
like some sort of ACL kind of thing that
we can use with UNIX SS it wasn't so
much a request it was more him saying
like Oh had you heard of this like D is
that something that has been looked into
before and I imagined that in research
it had but I hadn't seen it so I thought
it would be interesting to to ding that
up
cool any other questions so I'm also
going up to London
Thursday and Friday this week to hang
out with Alex and Ollie and maybe Alan
if he's around all in the same place so
that would be good some high bandwidth
conversations hopefully getting more of
the kind of shake out what we can list
out as ways for other working groups to
to think about how they can like support
some of these things or enable more
stuff is there or that's super exciting
I'm super excited for us to kind of push
on that and get more of the research you
guys have been doing because I know lots
of the other working groups could super
benefit from this information but maybe
aren't keeping as close tabs on it and
so kind of I think both getting getting
more of this information out in like
small updates but also kind of more
holistically as we think about q2 and
the chunks of work that we should be
taking on inside the Go ipfs team the
ipfs cluster team the jsf fest team
making sure that there's like a read out
of like actionable here are things that
we really need to work on and improve
like all of this insight that like
adding to ipfs needs to be way faster if
this is going to be usable like those
sorts of insights we should make sure
they're like communicated out and that
we have like chunks of work that we're
prioritizing within these different
working groups so maybe when the crew of
you guys are together on Friday prepping
some sort of like readout that the other
working groups can consume and use in
planning for q2 would be super super
useful and we can you know we can
schedule an hour-long presentation we
can you know send people things on
github but I think we should definitely
plan for an output sometime in the next
week or two
who did following up on Molly's point I
think
but then again feel free to discard but
like having some kind of horizontal laid
out tree where you have these multiple
requirements right like they're being
able to loathe this specific data set in
less than one hour versus twelve being
able to update a name in West and ten
seconds like this it's kind of like
requirements that are like like it's
almost as important for the white
because team to understand exactly what
the package managers are doing it is
important for the very first team and
Jesse they seem to understand what are
the expectations from these use cases
things that they can control very well
things that they can benchmark for
things that they can test for etcetera
and the reason why I'm saying I'd be
sorry total tree because you can think
of as kind of like boxes get checked you
kind of like meet new milestones and
these milestones might be okay now with
this mouse down we are able to provide
what I don't know the window package
manager or NPM needs right and if we
have more features coming in and so
individually that features might not
like to make my chest but I give their
groups together by by kind of like use
package manager package manager then in
it is more obvious out to prioritize
because a group might pro ties like
three features which will enable like
the NPM own use case to be like complete
and then later C or what is the next
feature that I can do to support even
more package managers like that supports
the most the the next series of package
managers so I caving some kind of like a
way to visualize this that can be
entertaining there's any fun there can
be like motivating like did you see that
you're making progress will be really
great outputs then inform the working
groups and again I think even like other
than even before the visual the most
important thing is this list of
requirements like what do these groups
working groups need to achieve in order
for you to be able to do this in the
package when they go sit and say we are
ready right go for it like try it try it
out without fearing it they might fall
on the ground at the first run
you know sir Angie's prepared this list
is very like challenges people will face
which is great because when we can group
them by the kind of package managers
that we're trying to target and then
they'll create a kind of a structure to
have that kind of output for the working
group I think primary thing is it's got
to be faster than HTTP the one thing
that I've definitely found especially
over kind of the past week has the
documentation really needs to be leveled
up as well which is I couldn't find
exactly I didn't think there is a
documentation working group it's more
like it's each group has a documentation
element to it but trying to get and
trying to like transpose that over to
someone else be like here's all of the
different pieces that you should care
about in relation to making this work is
currently takes like days to be able to
load everything into your brain to be
able to like go oh ok I understand this
universe enough now to be to see how I
can I can model or how I can work around
the fatigue there restrictions that are
in place and like I want listen to like
have a summary that I can then send out
to all package manage maintains to be
like here's the particular bits there
are restrictions that you would usually
not like that you wouldn't have in a
traditional Thank You manager registry
so we feel you and actually like most of
my conversations with external users
nowadays is them telling me that IP fest
doesn't do X and my facing in what I
would suggest there is definitely we
need to improve documentation in
something that the project as part of
its roadmap to like really tackle this
year and not only like improve the
condition once but actually like
we want to do is create a support
structure to keep improving the
documentation over time something like
it has been unclear what responsibility
lens but I yeah we will get there my
recommendation to support these use case
and this work he is really drive it by
blog post like people will not have the
time to read every single IP aspect they
will not have the time to read do you
like see every single YouTube video even
if we index them all and even if we like
rewrote the documentation it was just
like be too large but like writing some
like 5 to 10 blog posts that like break
it down about all the package managers
can adopt ipfs I like basically
answering their questions right and you
as your question your questions you can
ask their questions as we can give you
an update or like if the solution or not
or is that a point or not and then we
can compile this into a blog post that
then can be a reference point for those
conversations in the future thank you
that I think I'm there's there's
opportunity here too it's kind of like
it's the lens of how do these things
work together for these sorts of of use
cases and like the the metadata that
should an ideally would live a
documentation but can be really targeted
for a specific audience in in kind of
like these how-to guides and actually a
lot of these aren't even documentation
we maintain all the time there there are
like in your like step by step
occupation that sometimes are like
confusing to people and don't have all
of the right information so to the
extent that we can create kind of
canonical guides on how to do these
things yes we should go and update
documentation when we find that it is
confusing people and we should be
chatter about that but I think also just
plan to produce more kind of tutorial
style guides for people to do things in
the package manager space in particular
yeah oh sorry Alex you say that in
general the onboarding is pretty hard
because there are a lot of concepts
everyone everyone will benefit from yeah
I found a number of medium posts that
were I don't believe they were written
by ipfs people that were like some of
the best ways of going like here is why
this is a thing and like here's how to
like solve this problem or to turn that
into something that then you can map to
your previous experience cool we have
three minutes left and can you give an
update on the blog post about 10k
menisci she turned off on time you would
have even heard it
okay oh yeah I went through the comments
and I just I think I Carly had some
extra points Chris comments addressing
when people stopped coming okay so does
that mean like we should review it again
cool all right chorus meeting to a close
and we can grab a coffee patrol the
microfiche weakly sink thank you very
much for attending I see you all next
week
thank you